Not at all, not at all. That was not the context at all. Um In a three hour, in a three hour social evening at the President's residence in Florida on a long weekend of American Thanksgiving. The conversation was going to be lighthearted. The president was telling jokes, the president was teasing us. It was of course on that issue in no way, a serious comment.
We had, we had a discussion on trade issues on border security that was very productive. But the fact that there's a warm cordial relationship between the two leaders and the president is able to joke like that for us was a was a but we don't have a transcript. No. If, if you look carefully at the picture, nobody had pads or were taking notes. It was a social evening. It wasn't uh a meeting in a boardroom with uh 10 bureaucrats keeping notes. It was a social evening.
Um And there were moments where it was uh entertaining and funny and there were moments where we were able to do. We think some good work for Canada. What do you think about that? Well, I was just mentioning uh to your colleague in French that I think what's important is that
uh we have a working relationship with Mr Trump. We've had that relationship. It dates back more than eight years. I think it's really important that uh when you, when President elect Trump sees Prime Minister Trudeau, he sees someone who's been there and there's continuity in terms of leaders on the world stage. And I think the fact that we have that continuum, we have that experience in, in working with the Trump administration, working to defend Canada's interests is what we'll continue to do. And I think this dinner you had on Friday night is just an example of that. Do you think it's an indication it'll be difficult to deal with?
Um I think there's challenges inherent in any uh the relationship with any American administration. We've always defended Canada's interests for the last 10 years. We'll continue to do something could become the 51st state if we were happy with the pro to be Canadians, a very difficult relationship is coming forward with the Trump administration. Iii I would see that differently. I mean, I've said many times and you've seen the recent announcement
and uh for example, China limiting uh the export of critical minerals to the United States. I think more and more our American friends will see Canada as the strategic supplier of choice, whether it's about semiconductors, whether it's about uh m critical minerals, whether it's about energy. I think Canada today, I mean, one thing that we have made clear that our friends down south understand is the integrated nature of our supply chain. And I would say
today, economic security is national security. So the things that you've said this morning where China decided to restrict the export of critical minerals to the United States in key sectors including in defense. Just highlight the fact how Canada is essential for the prosperity and and the integrated supply chain that we find in our American friends. You say our American friends understand that, but he's proposing 25%.
This is for me, one thing that you should take note is that Prime Minister Trudeau was the first leader of the G7 to be hosted by President Trump. I think that is really significant. That is a testament to the strategic nature of our relationship. I always said we need to move from being just a friendly neighbor of the north to the strategic party of the 21st century. And I think that meeting highlight that when, when President elect Trump invites
Canada Prime Minister Trudeau as the first leader to go to Mar A Lago, I think it sends a big signal to the world that Canada is a strategic partner on the comments about Canada being a 51st state of the campus, all the trade deal. So what do you think of that comment? Does that make Canada seem like a joke to Trump? Do you think he was joking. How do you take that? I wasn't at the, at the meeting on Friday, but I know however, and what we all know that this was a very important meeting between Prime Minister Trudeau and
President Trump. President Trump invited Mr Trudeau to come to his residence in the United States. It was a sign of how important he finds that relationship with Canada in the next weeks to come. And I think all Canadians are mindful of the value of that relationship with that conversation saying Canada could be the state. What we know this is silly.
Now he's trying to distract everyone's attention and undermine in fact, the work, the collective work of premiers and the Prime Minister to provide a unified and strong voice in the context of the forthcoming Trump administration. So Mr Poe is damaging, not only his reputation but trying to damage the ability of Canadians to do the right thing in the presence of Mr Trump coming to office in general.
